Now we're going to actually see how the file streams source works.
Now we're back in our work space,
and we're going to take a look at our next example.
So here, we have a new function, configure_connector,
and this function essentially will talk to
the Kafka Connect API and actually create a connector.
We're going to skip this for now.
We'll come back to this in a moment.
But essentially all this is doing is asking
Kafka Connect if the desired connector name already exists.
If it does, we're not going to do anything.
Now, what we're really interested in here is actually creating the Kafka connector.
In this case, we're actually going to go ahead and create a file stream source connector.
So I'm going to pull up the docs just to
show you what the configuration would look like for it.
So I'm going to open a new tab.
Now, you can see here we have FileSource Connector,
and it tells you the basic configuration that you are required to provide to it.
So we might come back here in a second.
For now we're going to copy this connector class.
We send a post to Kafka connect,
it's important that we obviously provide the URL,
but that we also provide the correct headers that we're
sending it application JSON style data.
We also need to make sure to specify the data,
and not just to send it a Python dictionary,
but to dump it out to string first.
We also need to provide a connector name.
In this case, we're going to call it connector_name.
In addition, we also need to make sure that we're not just
posting against the base Kafka connect URL,
we want to make sure that we're hitting the slash connector's URL.
Now, how do I know that?
Well, that's because if we look at the API documentation,
which I'm pulling up right now,
we go to connectors.
You saw us use get in the previous exercise,
but now we need to do a post.
As we can see, a post against slash connectors will
create a new connector and returns the current information if successful.
So let's go ahead and take a look at how do we do that.
So Kafka Connect URL is defined at the top of the file,
and it only includes the slash connectors end point in the path.
So to come back down,
and now we're going to setup the connector class.
So as we saw earlier,
the connector class is FileStreamSource,
and what this essentially is doing is telling
the underlying Kafka Connect server that's going to receive the request,
which of the classes it should load to actually service this connector.
Next, we need to give it a topic name.
For this, we'll use lesson4.
sample2 as our topic name.
Well, actually we will add logs here as well.
Since this is going to contain logs,
we're going to give it a maximum number of tasks.
In this case, we only want to have one,
but what the setting is essentially doing is telling
Kafka Connect how many tasks it should run on its server.
We only need one for this example.
Finally, we need to give it a file to use.
So let's think about that for a second.
We actually have created a sample log file here
that will actually open a file for you and start to write out logs.
So I've placed that at tmp/connector_name.log.
So we're going to grab this,
and we're going to tell Kafka connect that it should look
for logged data in this location. All right.
With that, you should be ready to go ahead and run.
So let's see what happens.
I also just really quickly want to mention that we are going to use
the Kafka console consumer to actually see this data stream through.
So we're going to say, python sample2.py.
It looks like we have a missing comma again.
So we've got a missing comma in our JSON,
so we updated that and we saved.
So now, we're going to run that.
We can see that has created our connector successfully.
Now, we're running the producer.
So the log producer is actually going to be writing data out into this log.
So while it's doing that,
let's open up a new terminal,
and let's actually start a Kafka console consumer.
So we're going to say the topic name is,
we set it to lesson4.sample2.log. So we'll grab that.
Make sure you put that inside of the quotes,
and then we're going to say,
bootstrap.server is local host 1992.
We'll also have a start from the beginning.
All right. You can see,
every few seconds we're going to get a few more log messages.
So you may be thinking, well,
how is this any different from any of the producers you've ever seen?
What's neat about this is,
this is actually coming from a log file.
Let's actually show you what that looks like.
So I'm going to open a new terminal window once again,
and I'm going to go to CD tmp,
and you can see we have that file name as sample2,
which we're going to open up here.
So you can see that we're actually writing out the logs into this file.
If I tail the file,
we can see our application
continuing to add data to the end of this file on a periodic basis.
If we switch back to our Kafka consumer,
we can see that it's getting the same data.
So this is a very straightforward way of actually getting data into Kafka.